[suspenseful music playing]
[monitor beeping]
Masha.
Don't call me that.
Your mother?
You tried to murder my mother.
You lied to me about Reddington,
convinced me he was Ilya Koslov.
That woman.
You abducted me for her.
-How hard can I push him?
-You won't get away with this.
-I asked you...
-[Liz] The people looking for her
-would not hesitate...
-...how hard?
...to hurt me or Agnes
if it would help them get what they want.
And I didn't abduct you for her.
I abducted you for answers
to make it stop.
Help me understand.
For the first time,
stop protecting Reddington
and God knows who else, and make
the decision to protect your own family.
Three generations of women
fighting to survive.
[dramatic music playing]
-Mr. Reddington, please.
-Take a swing, Eduardo.
This is what you wanted.
Take your best shot.
Because I assure you,
if you don't, I will.
Please. I would never betray you.
Come on. A nice big swing.
I swear, I didn't know
your people were the target.
If you won't hit me,
at least say something hurtful.
How am I supposed to deal with this?
You're so plaintive, I feel
like I should apologize for your betrayal.
You know what, just help me track the van.
Give me a VIN number, license plate.
Whatever you've got.
You know what I've got. Nothing.
My clients don't want me tracking them.
But for you, if I had any idea
your people were in danger,
I would've put a trace on the vehicle,
but I didn't because I didn't know.
You're a good man.
And I'm glad you didn't clock me
with a tire iron.
I was thinking,
"Boy, that's really gonna hurt."
[door opens, then closes]
-Anything?
-[Dembe] Not yet.
They must have a safe house nearby.
They weren't on the road for long.
That's it? With all the sources
we pay for information?
Everyone's looking, but wherever they are,
they know better than to show themselves.
Dembe, Dom's too old.
He'll try not to break,
but if they push him, he'll die trying.
[Raymond sighs]
I'm sorry about the theatrics.
I should've known better.
I do hope I haven't made you
too uncomfortable.
Take Kate to Argonne. Have dinner.
A few laughs.
I hear Chef Gilbert does a ris de veau
that will make your toes curl.
Raymond, where are we going?
We need a lead.
If we don't have one,
we need to talk to people who might.
Tell me. Where are we?
So far, we're working two possibilities.
Uh, first is this man.
A roadside camera picked him up
before the spike strip deployed.
We believe he placed the strip
at Keen's instruction.
-Can we enhance the resolution?
-[Aram] You're looking at it.
-The plate's a fake.
-How will we find her?
We circulate this image to merchants,
Metro PD, see what shakes loose.
How do we do that without exposing Keen
to a kidnapping charge?
My question exactly.
Please tell me
we had better luck with the van.
Not much. Surveillance shows it continued
north for another six-tenths of a mile.
At that point, it turned off the main road
and took surface streets.
To avoid any cameras.
Keen knows what she's doing.
[elevator door opens]
What do you want?
Our help. He wouldn't be here
unless he needed something.
Good to see you all as well.
Like it or not, I believe
we're all pulling on the same oar.
Harold, perhaps we could go find
a comfortable chair somewhere.
[monitor beeping]
[suspenseful music playing]
What are you looking at?
-You want to know if she's here.
-I know.
Tell her to come out where I can see her.
[Liz] She's not hiding.
I asked her to let us talk alone.
I know you're not gonna
tell her the truth.
I know a lot more
than the last time we talked.
I know about the Sikorsky Archive.
That's right.
And N-13.
Careful, Masha.
Say N-13 around the wrong person
at the wrong time
and you won't live to regret it.
I told you not to call me that.
And I'm not the one in danger here.
N-13 has the Archive, doesn't he?
Assuming it is a "he."
-Listen to me--
-It's Reddington, isn't it?
He framed my mother.
You have no idea
what you're talking about.
If he doesn't have it, you know who does.
You're protecting someone.
Who could be so important
that you'd sacrifice your daughter?
My daughter. Some daughter.
Don't lie to me. I swear,
it'll be better if you said nothing--
That's enough!
[beeping rapidly]
You think I want this?
To live with this? To die for this?
To keep these secrets?
Then stop keeping them.
I can't.
You don't understand.
Whatever secrets I know,
they're not mine to tell.
You don't have to believe me,
but if I die...
I'll know I did my best
to protect you and Agnes.
If you want to protect us, stop keeping
secrets that put us in danger
and start telling us the truth!
-[Clemons] He needs to be sedated.
-We're not finished.
You are for now.
You want information so you can get
to Agent Keen before we do.
If history is any indication, you may
never get to Agent Keen without me.
We'll take our chances.
Really? With an old man's life at stake?
A sick, old man in need of medical care?
If he dies--
If he dies,
it'll be no less your fault than hers.
Imagine risking everything: her career,
a life with her child, her freedom,
all to get answers you already have.
Oh, come on. We've been over this.
She's gone way too far.
Felony abduction, very possibly torture.
She could kill the old son of a bitch.
She wouldn't.
What do you imagine she's doing, Donald?
Saying, "Pretty please? Mother, may I?"
I can tell you what she's not doing,
behaving like you would.
Boy, she played you.
She took advantage
of your rather significant blind spot
in matters of the heart.
-What does that mean?
-If this were the high school prom,
she'd be the pretty loner
standing on the sidelines
and you'd be the second-string quarterback
guzzling down the punch,
hoping to cop a feel off her
during "Stairway to Heaven."
-I've had enough of you!
-[Cooper] That's enough.
We're done here.
In fact, it's possible after this,
we're done period.
If and when we find Agent Keen,
we'll let you know.
-How'd it go?
-I placed it under his lapel.
You want to release him?
[snickers] You can't be serious.
-Look at him. He's unconscious.
-He's sedated.
When his seizure subsides,
we can try again and again and again.
-He's not gonna talk.
-Oh, he will. Not willingly.
But he's too old to withstand
a more aggressive approach.
No.
You understood what we were doing.
We agreed not to stop--
-Until what?
-Don't give me that look.
I've been crystal clear
about how far I'm willing to go.
-You agreed.
-I know what I said, but I can't.
Not if it means torturing
an 80-year-old man.
Whatever he's done,
he's still your father.
-And my grandfather.
-So, what now?
We can't just take him back
where he came from.
Maybe we can.
Let me make a call.
Katarina.
Mother.
I need to know
you're not going to hurt him.
You've never called me that.
You won't, will you?
[tense music playing]
[line dialing]
[rings]
Ressler.
-[Liz] It's me.
-[Ressler] Where are you? You all right?
I'm okay, but this was a mistake.
-Cooper's going out of his mind.
-I need help with Dom.
Equipment, medications.
Same place as last time.
I'll be there. Thirty minutes.
We should have
Chuck and Morgan follow Donald.
I want to know
as soon as they make contact.
[suspenseful music playing]
Is it done?
He's conscious.
The seizure has abated,
but I'm concerned that--
I'm aware of your concerns, doctor.
You've made them very clear.
No. You don't understand.
He's having some kind of episode.
Lena! Lena!
[in Russian]
I thought you were bringing my tea.
He's been drifting in and out of Russian,
calling for a woman named Lena.
-Do you know who that is?
-Lena Volkova.
She was his wife.
Dom? Can you hear me?
Lena's not here.
Dom, open your eyes.
[in English] It's you.
You're here.
I'm here.
He gave you back to me.
I thought I'd lost you forever.
[Dom sobbing]
[Raymond on phone] Any movement?
Negative.
He's still parked under the overpass.
How does that work?
Is he under an overpass
or in an underpass?
Stand by. I got a car coming in.
It's Agent Keen. She's walking to his car.
-What now?
-Let's just wait and see.
[tense music playing]
-Keen--
-Don't say it.
Don't say what, exactly,
-of the 10,000 things I should say?
-Ressler.
Don't commit felony kidnapping?
Don't betray everyone you work with?
The only people who've proven
over the last seven years
how much they care about you?
It's done. I've made my choices.
I'm not here
for your forgiveness or approval.
What are you here for? Why'd you call me?
To inform me you're torturing
your grandfather for information?
You know me better than that.
Do I? See, I thought I did.
But lately, you're full of surprises.
He's in a safe house
in the warehouse district.
[Ressler] With your mother,
who shot him in the chest.
-[Liz] She won't hurt him.
-[Ressler] And you believe her.
You got it all figured out.
He had another seizure.
We need more doctors, advanced equipment.
[Ressler] So, that's why you called me.
He needs more doctors?
He has answers, all of them.
I thought if he wouldn't talk to her,
he'd talk to me...
have some human response
to his granddaughter pleading for help.
And he said nothing?
It's my mistake.
Whatever humanity he had
died a long time ago.
[in Russian] It's all falling apart.
Everything.
Gone.
What's happening to him?
It's common for seizure patients
to experience delusions,
even hallucinations.
-[Dom muttering in Russian]
-He's talking like it's years ago.
He's lost any sense of time.
I can administer an anti-psychotic.
It may work to block
the dopamine and serotonin.
No.
-No? I don't understand.
-I want the truth.
And I don't care
if he tells the woman I am now
or the woman I was then.
Papa.
[young Katarina in Russian]
Thank God I found you.
I'm in trouble.
I need your help.
[Ressler] Tell me where he is.
I'll go myself with a transport van,
get him whatever help he needs.
-What about my mother?
-Liz, this has to end.
I know how Reddington wants it to end
or how it'll end if you go by the book.
Can't you ignore rules this time?
[Ressler] Think about
what you're asking me to do.
She tortured Reddington, shot Dom,
abducted Dembe's imam.
To save her own life and mine.
Listen to me, you're on this quest
to find answers about your family.
Well, I'm as close to family as you got.
And I'm telling you,
if you don't stop protecting her,
you'll end up destroying yourself.
I'm sorry.
Don't be.
I shouldn't have put you in this position.
You don't have anything to apologize for.
I would do anything for you if I could.
But you can't do this.
Now I'm the one who's sorry.
[Chuck] Keen's on the move.
Let her go, Raymond.
Lock it down, Chuck.
[engine starts]
Ressler!
[dramatic music playing]
We're good here. Target's secure.
[suspenseful music playing]
[monitor beeping]
[in English] Listen to me.
I know what you're planning.
I know you think it's your only way out.
[in English] What I'm planning?
I know you're in danger.
In danger? I'm being hunted.
They will stop at nothing
until they find me and destroy me.
We can handle the Cabal.
You're not listening. It's Townsend.
They put a bounty on my head.
-I have to run.
-No. You can't leave me again.
[in Russian] I don't want to, Father.
But they'll kill me. I've been framed.
They think I have the Archive.
Sikorsky?
[in English] Yes.
Yes! Help me stop them.
Help me understand
why they think I took it.
Because you did.
What are you talking about?
I can help you.
But what you are planning...
it breaks my heart.
We know Katarina's holding Dom
somewhere in this two-mile radius.
I want every building scrutinized.
See if they're occupied and by whom.
Any abandoned buildings get top priority.
I have six teams mobilizing.
She chose this area because it's filled
with mid-sized warehouses.
Here. These six blocks.
Two dozen structures.
That's where I'd go,
so that's where she'll be.
-You followed me?
-Of course I didn't. I had you followed.
Take it easy, Donald.
The veins on your neck are straining.
You don't want a ruptured aneurysm.
As for you...
I can't begin to describe
my disappointment.
Oh, thank God.
Be disappointed all you want.
She's still a federal agent and so am I.
You can't hold us.
You and Harold, always telling me
what I can't do while I'm doing it.
Why don't we split the difference?
You go. Agent Keen can stay with me.
-I won't tell you where she is.
-Then I won't ask.
Run along, Donald. Call in the cavalry.
I've got a head start.
The FBI won't find them before I do.
Tea?
You can't be on board with this.
He's out of control.
Promise me he won't harm Keen.
He won't.
[cell phone rings]
Do forgive me, Harold,
but I'm a little busy at the moment.
I know what you're doing. Stop.
You're angry. Understandable.
I would be, too, if my agent snuck away
to have a secret meeting
with the woman
my task force was searching for.
That's for me to deal with.
-Is it true you're holding Keen?
-What choice do I have?
If I let her go,
she'll warn Grendel's Mother.
Elizabeth's mother is not to be harmed.
And I agreed. Anything else?
-I'm not kidding.
-You don't sound like you're kidding.
But you've always known
where this is headed.
What she's done must be avenged.
Not by her murder.
When it's over,
I'll look up and see what remains.
If there are any bridges,
I'll cross them when I get there.
Get to the warehouse district.
Bring Agents Mojtabai
and Park up to speed.
It's a long shot,
but maybe we can find them first.
[Katarina] I need a name.
It's not enough to say I was framed.
I need to prove who has the Archive.
-You know.
-It wasn't me.
Why are you saying that?
It doesn't matter who took it.
What matters is who has it now.
I need a name.
Is it Reddington?
Is he the one you're protecting?
Goodbye, Papa.
-No! Don't go.
-I have to go!
They're coming for me. They're close.
If I don't leave now, they'll kill us all.
Reddington.
Reddington. He has the Archive?
Yes.
You took it, but he has it.
And so do you.
We both have it?
How is that possible?
Tell me what you mean.
Tell me now or you won't see me again.
[footsteps approaching]
How long have you been helping her?
That's how you know about Ilya, isn't it?
You were there
when she was questioning him.
Helped her get away.
You know you can't trust
that woman, right?
That woman is my mother.
No, she's just using that to exploit you.
Why?
So, you'd do exactly
what you've already done.
I know about the Sikorsky Archive.
That's why
the Townsend Directive was issued.
She was framed.
[Raymond] Is that the story she told you?
She's a victim,
an innocent wrongly accused?
Are you N-13?
Because she certainly believes you are.
Do you have it?
The Archive?
I see. So, this is a ghost story.
And you believe her.
What choice do I have?
She's the one looking for answers.
You're the one hiding them.
Maybe she's not telling me everything.
Do I still have questions? Of course.
For now, the only one
I need to answer is this:
"Am I willing to let you kill her?"
And the answer is no.
[cell phone ringing]
What's the word?
[Bud] We found her.
It's a shipping complex on Paxton.
Nothing's getting shipped.
The company went bankrupt six weeks ago.
Good spot for a safe house.
-Close to the main roads out of town.
-Any movement?
Definitely. Bud popped the lock.
We can't see who,
but there's people inside.
[Raymond] I'll see you there.
If you hurt her, we're done.
Understand?
Whatever this is...
whatever relationship we had
or have will be over.
[tense music playing]
[door closes]
[dramatic music playing]
Hands! Show me your hands.
-Don't shoot. It's me.
-Where is she?
-Gone.
-How long ago?
A few minutes.
[monitor beeping]
Dom. Dom.
It's Raymond.
Raymond?
You're too late.
She was here.
I...
I told her.
Told her what?
Dom.
What did you tell her?
Everything.
[Park] We crossed
into the warehouse district.
Focus on the streets east of the pier.
We're scrambling units.
I don't think we'll find that warehouse
before Reddington does.
[Aram] Maybe they already have.
I'm looking at satellite feeds.
There's a lot of activity on Paxton Ave.
Copy that.
Dembe.
Dembe, look at me.
Please. She's my mother.
You can't let him kill her.
You know this is wrong!
Why are you helping him?
I can't answer that.
Let me go.
Let me try and stop him.
It's okay, Dom.
Everything's gonna be okay.
Mr. Reddington,
I need additional equipment.
His heart rate is irregular,
blood pressure's spiking.
You said I'd never see her again.
[dramatic music playing]
But... she came.
-[Clemons] I really need--
-Thank you, doctor.
You've done everything you can.
[Dom] I held her hand...
touched her face.
At least...
I got to say goodbye to her.
Yes.
My daughter.
My Katarina.
She loves you.
She always has.
Nothing can... ever change that.
[Dom gasping]
[suspenseful music playing]
I've got eyes!
Target heading north on Ridgemont.
[woman] You can check the purchase order
tomorrow when they're in the office.
Will do. Have a good night, Carol.
-Carol?
-Yes?
Hi. I'm sorry, do we know each other?
I thought that was you.
Donna Hays. We met a few weeks ago
at John Adams.
-Right, Donna. How are you?
-So good.
Sorry. Remind me again
how you're connected to--
The keys. Give me your keys.
-Cover the exit.
-[engine starts]
Reddington.
You can try and spread the blame around,
but this is on you.
Keen was looking for answers,
answers that you have.
If anyone's responsible
for this man's death, it's you.
You're probably right.
[dramatic music playing]
Dom's dead, Dembe.
No.
He's dead.
And she's gone.
Raymond, I'm sorry.
She knows everything.
We have to find her.
We have a plate number for the car
she's driving. It won't last long.
-If she does know--
-There's only one move she can make.
Our best chance is to intercept it.
That's dangerous.
I have Chuck and the others.
I should be with you.
Take Elizabeth to the apartment.
Hold her there.
I'll call you when this part's done.
[cell phone beeps]
-Boss expecting company?
-Negative. Nothing on the schedule.
Whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Roll down your window, sir.
Hey, we got a wise guy here.
Open up.
[gunshots]
[phone rings]
Mr. Heidegger's office.
Mr. Heidegger, please.
Sorry, he's not in right now.
Can I take a message?
It's urgent that I speak with him.
A personal emergency.
-May I ask who's calling?
-Katarina Rostova.
-I'm sorry, could you--?
-You heard me. Put him on the line.
I understand. We all thought so, Susan.
No, you did the right thing,
calling me at home.
Go ahead and put her through.
[phone beeps]
This is Heidegger. To whom am I speaking?
You already know.
That's why you took the call.
Dear lady, I don't know
who you think you've reached,
but there's been some misunderstanding.
You're William Heidegger.
The highest-ranking representative
of the Townsend Organization
in the Western hemisphere.
Whoever I am is irrelevant.
Katarina Rostova is dead.
You believe the Kazanjian Brothers
killed me because that's what I wanted.
It was a good plan.
Tricked Townsend into paying
the bounty on my head,
part of which I used
to prove my innocence.
Assuming, for the sake of discussion,
you are who you claim to be,
what proof could you possibly have?
I have the identity of N-13.
You're N-13.
No.
But I know who is.
And I'm willing to give you his name
in exchange for my safety.
There's a park on the corner
of Wabash and Grant.
I take my granddaughter there
to feed the ducks.
-West benches. Will that do?
-I'll be there.
Well done, William.
You won't survive this.
I appreciate your concern.
Oddly enough, I was about to say
the same thing to you.
[cell phone ringing]
-Raymond.
-We were right.
She reached out to Heidegger.
Set a meeting. I'll text you the address.
Is it done?
Did he kill her?
I know you won't help me,
but you could at least have
the decency to tell me
whether or not my mother's dead.
I know you're loyal to him.
And I'm not asking you to be disloyal.
But I do have a right to know.
Your grandfather, Dom...
he passed.
I'm sorry.
You asked why I'm helping Raymond.
I said I didn't know anymore,
but that's not true.
[dramatic music playing]
I know it seems like Raymond
can be selfish and sometimes cruel.
"Sometimes"?
He's killed everyone
I've ever cared about.
My father. My husband. My grandfather.
Now you're dropping me off, why,
so you can help him kill my mother?
-It isn't what it appears to be.
-I was always glad you were in his life.
He had a better angel
that might influence his behavior.
But now I know you're not.
You can't.
You're no better than he is.
I can't anymore.
I'm done.
I can't fight him anymore.
He wins.
He always wins.
He's not gonna win this time.
[engine starts]
[suspenseful music playing]
Before you get any ideas, I have teams
watching from every angle and I'm armed.
Reddington is N-13.
He has the Archive.
He's the one you've been looking for.
Say something.
Did you hear me?
[Raymond] No, I don't believe he did.
The pistol.
Dominic's dead.
He wasn't when I left him.
No matter. You killed him just as sure
as I killed poor Heidegger there.
Am I supposed
to feel something about that?
Dom set me up, led me to what was
supposed to be my public slaughter.
Think what you want, but I won't be
shedding any tears for that monster.
No, I wouldn't think so.
[cell phone buzzes]
[Liz] Elizabeth Keen's voicemail.
Please leave a message.
[line dialing]
[cell phone ringing]
-Dembe?
-[Liz] No, Ressler. It's me.
Keen?
Sorry, we got here too late. Dom's gone.
-I know.
-How? Where are you?
Why are you calling from Dembe's phone?
He's going to kill her.
Reddington's on his way to kill my mother.
-Slow down.
-She's there now.
The park on Wabash and Grant.
That's where he's meeting her.
Send units there now.
Done. But you gotta realize
the best-case scenario here
is we arrest her.
Then arrest her. Just get there now.
-Where are you?
-I'm on my way, but I'm unarmed.
You gotta stop him.
All those years searching for answers
and you were right
in front of me the whole time.
For what it's worth, I didn't know
what Dom was planning in Belgrade.
I believe you.
But after...
you let the world believe the lie.
You dangled me out there,
let everyone think I had the Archive.
And now I know why.
If they were chasing me,
it meant they weren't chasing you.
It's not quite that simple.
You're N-13, aren't you?
You framed me.
You fed me to Townsend as a patsy,
and Dominic knew and helped you do it.
Sir?
I just talked with Agent Ressler
and he's gonna do it.
Mr. Reddington's gonna do it.
-Do what?
-Kill Agent Keen's mother.
City park. Wabash and Grant.
They're there now.
Scramble units.
I could've helped you...
the way I always have.
Kept you one step ahead.
But staying safe wasn't enough.
You needed answers.
Well, now you have them.
And now they've destroyed you.
What if I promised never to tell a soul
what I've learned?
Well, that would be
the last lie you ever told.
You won't kill me.
You can't.
-Why?
-Elizabeth would never forgive you.
You don't know a damn thing
about Elizabeth.
Oh, that's not true.
I've gotten to know her.
She chose me.
She's helping me.
She has no idea who you are. Me?
I'm her mother.
And even now...
there's love there.
[mournful music playing]
-I can't let you leave.
-[laughs]
My God, I can't imagine
what this must be like for you.
Knowing you can't kill me because
of how much Elizabeth loves her mother.
[gunshots]
[inaudible dialogue]
[mouthing] No!
I saw you!
I saw you pull the trigger.
[vehicle approaching]
You're never gonna away with this!
Red.
[closing theme playing]